hey I'm syvia Perez I'm the founder of
Adon conversion.com and in this video I
want to teach you how to create a
winning Google ads budget strategy for
B2B SAS so if you're watching this video
and you're asking questions like how
much does Google ads cost what should my
starting budget be does Google ads work
for SAS uh should I invest in Google ads
this video I hope will give you a lot of
clarity to understand first and foremost
the answer to those questions um
secondly how to forecast your
performance So based on how much it cost
what are my forecasts going to be so
what can I expect in terms of my cost
per lead my cost per acquisition uh my
return on ad spend I'm going to walk you
through how to do all that in this video
and actually create a winning strategy
so the first step is you need to create
a free Google ads account and once you
create your free Google ads account
you're going to come here to the Keyword
Planner under Tools Keyword Planner and
you're going to click discover new
keywords so the Keyword Planner allows
us to research keywords that we might
want to invest in so in my case for ad
conversion we teach BWB marketers how to
run ads with courses taught by the
world's best practitioners so I want to
show up for course related keywords so
for example I might want to show up for
Google ads course so I'm going to go
ahead and search that keyword and what
I'm going to do is I'm going to scroll
down here and I'm going to look at
average monthly searches now really
quick disclaimer is you can adjust your
location targeting so if you're not
advertising in the US you can adjust
that here if you're advertising in
different languages you can adjust that
here as well to get relevant results so
once you search your dream ideal keyword
the keyword that if somebody searched it
it was game over if you showed up at the
top of the page once you search that
keyword you're going to want to look at
the average monthly searches and make
sure you have enough search volume to
even justify all the effort you're about
to expend on Google ads as a channel so
in my case I have between 1 and 10,000
search volume for this keyword that's
really great but I understand for SAS uh
especially when you're going Enterprise
and you're going after very Niche
markets having a th000 search volume is
unheard of so ideally you have more than
a 100 searches per month minimum to
really make the return on effort worth
while because you have to remember you
need search volume because from search
volume you get clicks from clicks you
get conversions from conversions you get
Pipeline and so on and so forth so if
you don't have search volume to begin
with you're not going to get enough
clicks which will then impact your
conversions and everything else down the
funnel so with that being said ideally
100 searches a month to justify the
return on effort you yourself as a
business have to make the decision if
it's less than that if it's even worth
showing up for so when you do have the
occasional search you have the ability
to appear there could be value in that
but it's for you to understand and at
the very minimum this can help taper
your expectations on what you can expect
in terms of volume out of the gate from
Google ads so once you've searched your
keyword and you've you've uh verified
your search volume the second thing
you're want to do is you're want to look
at the top of page bid high range so
this is an estimate of how much it's
going to cost you to be on the top three
spots of Google Google and in my
experience this is almost always wrong
uh it's usually a little bit more than
this so I like to add 20% on top of this
in terms of forecasting so in my case it
says it's going to cost me
$142 to show up on the top of the page
for Google ads course so I'm going to
round up 20% let's just add $3 and let's
say it's going to be
$14.42 in order to show up for this
keyword so you won't know your real cost
per click until you're launching your
Google ad campaigns and if you have any
historical data then you can skip this
step because you already know what your
real CPC is but if you don't and you're
starting from scratch this is what
you're going to want to do so now that
we know our Coster click price now it's
time to create a forecast to see if
we're fighting again that winnable fight
and if Google ads is worth it as a
channel for us so to make this really
easy for you we've actually created a
Google ads budget calculator and uh I'll
link this in the description box down
below for you guys and this is a really
easy tool that will do all the math for
you so what you got to do is you've got
to add in your goal so what is your goal
on a quarterly basis so in my case maybe
my goal is to drive um I don't know
let's say 100 signups right 100 uh 100
in my case with AC conversion we don't
actually have a product that we sell yet
so this is a little uh tricky but in our
case we get student sign up so for me
it'll might stop at CPL but for you
it'll be your product um but let's just
say I wanted to drive 100 sales from
here I'm going to put in my cost per
click price so it's going to be
$14.42 again going back to what I got
from the Keyword Planner here you're
going to put in your win rate so of all
the leads you generate how many tend to
close into a deal into a customer let's
just assume we had uh 30% and then
what's your Revenue per sale so I'm just
going to put uh $100 here for the sake
of example you can put whatever that is
for you and then you're going to scroll
down and then based on the inputs it's
going to tell you based on a worst case
moderate case and best case scenario
what you can expect expect to pay per
click uh or not pay per click pay per
lead pay per customer and ultimately
what's your quarterly budget monthly
budget daily budget and your expected
row as going to be so this is based on
your form conversion rates this worst
moderate and best case scenario So based
on a 5% form conversion rate meaning
people who go to my landing page from
the ad this is what's going to be from a
10% conversion rate this is what's going
to be and 15% this is what's going to be
so assuming these values are true if I
have 5% form conversion rate on my
Landing p page I need 20 clicks if it
was 10% I need 10 if it's seven or if
it's 15% I need 7even this is where
again go back to search volume you need
enough clicks for a lead and then the
second thing is your landing pages is
how effective are your landing pages at
converting people so based on this I can
see it would cost me
$288 per lead if I have a 5% form
conversion rate and assuming it's a
$14.42 cent average cost per click if
we're talking 10% conversion rate on my
paid it's going to be $144 and if I have
a 15% conversion rate it's going to be
$96 now then from there if assuming 35
30% of my leads convert into an actual
deal being closed or a customer being
generated then that means I need 333
leads regardless of the scenario because
of my win rate of 30% so with 333 leads
being required uh this means I'm going
to have a $961 cost per acquisition with
a 5% conversion rate 480 for 10% and 320
for 15% so now that understand these
these numbers it's really easy now to
forecast out what a quarterly budget a
monthly budget and a daily budget would
be so assuming this is to be true if we
take that number we multiply it times
our goal with 90 days we need to spend
$96,000 in a quarter $32,000 a month
$11,000 a day and if we have a 5%
conversion rate this is not going to be
a very profitable channel for us at a
31% return on ad spend if we have 10%
we're at 62% 15 we're still in the
negative and we're not generating our uh
return on ad spend that's profitable has
to be above 100% so like imagine we had
$1,000 per sale instead of 100 so now
it's a completely different story with a
5% conversion rate we're profitable with
a moderate case and a best case we're
profitable as well so this is where
knowing your numbers is super important
and using the average cost per click
price that you found from the Keyword
Planner you can do some forecasting now
based on these different landing page
conversion rates and they're editable as
well so you can change this so maybe you
want to do something a little bit more
extreme like a 1% 3% and the 5% scenario
you can do that and you can update these
landing page conversion rates and then
you can also grab this link and share
this result with your team members or
your clients so then they can see what
is expected if they want to actually
advertise on Google so I hope this was
helpful from here you should be very
clear on how much and if this is a
winnable fight from here the next point
is how do you want to divvy up your
budget in terms of your strategy so
actually created an entire article
talking about this process that I'll
link in the description box down below
but using this as a reference in terms
of a visual for this video I want to go
ahead and talk about how I recommend
that you allocate your budget based on
your strategy and your campaign themes
so my experience managing Google ad
campaigns for SAS companies and um you
know from all of my experience up into
this point really most campaigns in
Google ads in terms of strategies can
bucket be bucketed into five themes so
the first one is on brand this is
bidding on keywords High intent keywords
that don't use your brand name you've
got brand campaigns bidding on your
brand name to protect yourself against
competitors you've got competitive
campaigns bidding on your competitors
names to be able to drive uh you know
get their traffic in terms of their
customers and Prospects you've got uh
rlsa campaigns which is search
remarketing so this is anyone that
searches your keywords and they're part
of a specific audience and then finally
you've got content campaigns so you're
trying to support your SEO efforts
you're trying to show up on the top of
Google for certain keywords you're
trying to a rank for and so on and so
forth so in terms of being able to go on
the offense which is how I believe
Google ads should be used to drive net
new acquisition this would be the now
the budget allocation that I would
recommend for you based on what you now
found out so going back to the previous
step now you know okay I've got
$480,000 that I need to invest uh given
this scenario right and you can decide
if that makes sense or not uh and I need
a monthly budget of 53 or whatever the
case might be how are you now going to
allocate that $53,000 for your paid
campaigns so in my experience I would
recommend you take that sum and you
multiply it by this allocation because
remember based on search volume intent
certain campaigns will perform better
than others so this can now give you a
second step to be able to actually
allocate your strategy right so if I've
got
$53,000 maybe 40% of that's going to go
to non-brand campaigns 20% to Brand 25%
to competitive 10% to rlsa and then 5%
to content if it makes sense this of
course is all subject to your nuances
and goals so please feel free to modify
this but the whole purpose of this video
is to help you as I mentioned in the
beginning understand what it costs for
you to advertise on Google how to put
together that forecast and then drive
that down into an actual strategy so
then you can understand if you're
fighting a winnable fight I hope this
video was valuable I'm going to link
this article for you in the description
box down below and if you want to learn
more about advertising for B2B and you
want to access free courses taught by
the world's best practitioners then
definitely check us out at AC
conversion.com and if you want more
content around Google ads then
definitely check out the videos here
that we have Linked In This playlist as
I think you're going to find them really
helpful I'll see you in the next one